noam.blum1
alonbentzi


The differences between UML_start and UML_end:
The differences between the files embodies the dilemmas we face with during our work.
(1) grid coordination:
    We decided to create a class that converts between continuous world coordinates and discrete block grid
    coordinates.
    Terrain and tree use block class for determine the dimensions of the their instances, and because those
    objects are constantly changing, it is easier to work with grid values.
(2) Perlin Noise Generator:
    We initially thought that the perlin noise generation will be dine using a single class which will act
    like a function, but in order to implement it we had to create two classes, one that generates finite
    blocks of perlin noise, and another that takes the blocks, creates them in overlapping ranges and for each
    x coordinate returns the average of the two noise maps in the requested location.
(3) Leaf inherits from game object and tree class is not containing leaf class:
    Helped us to mange the attributes of each part of the tree separately - The trunk is static, while
    the leaves have timeLife and some of them falling from the tree and returning to initial position
    after a set up time. It also helped performance, since it allowed as to calculate collisions just between
    falling leaves and the ground, instead of with every block the tree consists of.
(4) Terrain contains an instance of ProceduralPerlinMap and is not using it, since ProceduralPerlinMap is not
    meant to be used as a static class.


Infinite World Generation:
Tree and Terrain classes are self contained and generate their respective game objects - whenever
createInRange is called the terrain/trees get generated in the specified range and get unloaded outside that
range.
PepseGameManager responsible to give these classes the required range. The range is calculated based on the
position of the Avatar.
The generation of these objects in pseudo-random and is reproducible based on a seed generated during game
initialization. Terrain generation is based on a Perlin Noise function, and tree generation is based on a
seeded RNG which uses the global seed and the location as its seed.


Tree class:
For creating trees in the game we decided to split the creation of the leaves and the creation of the tree
trunk.
it helped us to manage the attributes of the leaves - swing in the wind, fall down and fade out, fade in and
return to the initial position.
The tree class is getting a range to put tree instances in. It creates treeTrunks - Blocks in brown color,
places them randomly and creates leaves, which are instances of the Leaf class, around the top of the trunk.
We keep the instances of the components of each tree in a set, and each set as a value in a hash map in which
the key is the x coordinate of the tree in the map.
It is helping us to delete those objects when needed - When the x coordinate of a tree is outside the range
game manager provided.


Our main design concept was to keep as much of the objects' micromanagement as possible out of the GameManager
class. The two most prominent examples for it are Terrain and Tree - instead of having the game manager keep
track of the Avatar, and then making the decisions "load terrain from X to Y and unload from W to Z" the
manager simply notifies these classes "This is your new operating range, do whatever is needed to make it
work". Using this pattern allowed us to encapsulate each component of the world, and be able to test it
completely independently from all other components.
Another decision we made was to have the Tree and Terrain classes not know about each other. In general, Tree
needs to know the height of the terrain, to generate the trees on top of the ground, so in theory Tree class
needs to use Terrain class. We decided to instead have the Tree class use a functional interface to get the
base height for the tree and have the GameManger send the appropriate function from the Terrain instance to it
which simplified our dependency tree.
